…….Hails Judiciary for upholding justice, democracy The member representing Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South in the House of Representatives, Hon. Samuel Onuigbo has described his victory at the Court of Appeal as an end to unnecessary distraction. This is even as he commended the justices of both the Tribunal and the Court of Appeal for upholding democracy and the rule of law. In a statement issued in Abuja and personally signed by the lawmaker, Rep. Onuigbo said that the victory reaffirms the unanimous decision of his people to vote him as their lawmaker. “The Court of Appeal sitting in Owerri, today, re-affirmed my election as the Member Representing Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives. Recall that earlier, the Election Petitions Tribunal had also affirmed the legitimacy of my victory. “While I saw the many legal tussles initiated to try and steal my victory as mere distractions, at no point in time did I ever let my foot off the gas in my commitment to delivering unparalleled representation to the great people of Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South. “If anything, I became more vocal, and more relentless in the pursuit of everything good for my people. It is this remarkable and in-built burning desire for selfless and result-oriented service that the people of our constituency saw in me, and largely agreed that I should be re-elected to represent them for a second time. “As a ranking member of the House of Representatives, I have more opportunities and better experience to do exceedingly great for my people, and all of my actions since I set foot on the House of Representatives have been geared towards doing that (moreso, as a ranking member). “Thankfully, this brings to an end the legal distractions. I must now continue to focus on my hallmark of effective and responsive representation. More than ever, I am committed to changing the face of representation in Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South, and I make you this promise today, that when we are done, we would have set a standard in representation that shall be the envy of many. “The actions of the judges, from the Tribunal, to the Appeal Court, are worthy of commendation. They demonstrated unparalleled professionalism and thoroughness in the way they handled the judgments, and showed that the Judiciary, is the hope of the common man. If this was a judgment for the highest bidder, I would have lost, and the hopes of the good people of Ikwuano/Umuahia North/ South Federal Constituency for effective representation, dashed. “My deepest appreciation to God, my family, my legal team, the entire good people of great Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South Federal Constituency, and all Nigerians, for their unflinching support and unquestionable faith in me,”he said.