 The Special Assistant to Governor Udom Emmanuel on Local Media, Akparawa (Prince) Emmanuel Sam, has stated that the essence of the governor’s developmental policies is to secure the future for every Akwa Ibom child. Sam disclosed this in his office during a courtesy call on him by the management and pupils of Handmaid’s Prince of Peace Int’l Montessori School, Uyo, on Friday. According to him, the present administration places a premium on every child, which is why the governor has sustained laudable policies. Je listed soem of the policies to include: free health care for children from zero to five years in public health facilities, free antenatal care for pregnant women, improving on the free and compulsory education in public primary and secondary schools. He said that it was due to the governors commitment to children that he had taken up the payment of  WAEC, NECO and other specialized examinations fees for Akwa Ibom children. He further revealed that across the state, Governor is improving health and education infrastructure, building sports facilities, libraries and science laboratories in public schools which will open up doors of opportunities for aspiring youngsters to attain greatness. “This government is child friendly, it has ensured that all basic needs of children are provided free and is making efforts to provide more amenities to ensure that they grow up in peaceful and secured environment, and that there are adequate opportunities for them to become great leaders of tomorrow”, he said. Akparawa Sam thanked the children for the honour done him by the visit and assured them that Governor Udom loves all of them and is working hard to better their future, reiterating that “those we were called to serve are these children because they are the future leaders”. The Governor’s aide however urged the children to remain focused and humble, as these are sure ways to success in life. Leader of the team, Rev. Sister Rosemary Essien, expressed appreciation to the Governor for sustaining the free and compulsory education policy, adding that it has alleviated the plight of poor parents and given hope to indigent students in the state. She used the occasion to intimate the Governor’s aide about the forthcoming Instrumental Display by the Little Hands/Fund Raising and Award Presentation, organised by the management, staff, parents and pupils of the school, which comes up on 11 December, 2019 at the school compound.