By Emmanuel Afonne An NGO, Empowerment for Unemployed Youths Initiative (EUYI), has lauded the ideas of the Minister of Communications Technology and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami, towards the attainment of national development through digital technology. The National Coordinator of the group, Mr Solomon Adodo, said on Wednesday that Pantami’s significant interventions and policy reviews had ensured a fast-paced economy that now leaned on information technology and digitisation. Adodo noted that the bottlenecks associated with business transactions on digital platforms had been addressed and opportunities created for the youth to create more jobs and open new fronts of legitimate wealth creation. “The immediate order to stop charges for USSD services is one masterstroke that shows that the Ministry of Communications Technology and Digital Economy is committed to open spaces for Nigerians to carry out business transactions innovatively. “The fact that this was followed with a reduction in charges for data has ensured that more Nigerians can now benefit from the vast opportunities available in the new digital age,” Adodo said in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). He expressed the hope that the innovative strategy of the present government which focuses on building a digital economy would present a new vista for the country towards achieving its economic growth and recovery plan. “Pantami has set a track record of reversing capital flight in the form of sourcing our software and other ICT needs from foreign countries, which helped Nigeria save millions of dollars in foreign exchange. “As the Director-General/Chief Executive Officer of NITDA, Pantami used his wealth of experience to craft a strategic roadmap on how to transform the country’s Information Technology sector, which helped diversify the country from oil-based economy to a knowledge-based economy, driven by technology. “New Regulations, Capacity Building, Local Content Development and Promotion, Government Digital Services Promotion, Cyber Security, Digital Job Creation and Digital Inclusion are encouraged and this helped in rescuing Nigeria from the grips of economic recession,” Adodo said. “It should be noted that the global digital economy stands at about 11.1 trillion dollars and with the strategies put in place by the minister, we can gun for at least one percent of the sum. “This will see our economy having a boost of about one hundred billion dollars in the next four years and this can be achieved if the youth put on their thinking caps and come to the table of partnership with innovative ideas and inventions. “We therefore, call on all youth to wake up and seize the opportunity as we work towards a robust digital economy.” (NAN)