By Emmanuel Antswen The Federal Ministry of Education on Friday boosted its Adult Literacy Centre at the Federal Government College (FGC) Otobi , Benue , with additional instructional materials for learners in the centre. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports  that  the ministry had  in April presented the centre with instructional materials including books and writing materials during the inauguration of the centre. During the inauguration, the Permanent Secretary in charge of the ministry, Mr Sonny Echono, had pledged to make additional supplies to the centre following the upsurge of learners that nearly overwhelmed the materials provided. Making the presentation on Friday at the centre, Echono said the Federal Government was determined to reduce illiteracy in the country through the establishment of the literacy centre’s across the country. Represented by an Assistant Director, Office of the Permanent Secretary, Mrs Abosede Olayiwola, Echono regretted the high illiteracy rate in the country. He said over 60 million Nigerians were within he illiteracy bracket and commended the learners for their enthusiasm in acquiring basic education. “Please don’t stop until you get there, trouble your facilitators until you are able to communicate. With this basic education, you can do your businesses effectively, make demands from your leaders and even bank transactions”. He described illiteracy as  both a social and human right problem  and called on the learners at the pilot centre to remain committed and take their studies with all seriousness. Speaking on behalf of the learners, Mrs Ikamokwu Ebenyi, commended the federal government for establishing the learning centre in their community and providing them with learning materials. Ebenyi said that they were overwhelmed  with the gesture and commended the permanent secretary  for fulfilling his earlier promise to them during the inauguration of the programme. Also speaking during the presentation, a traditional ruler in the community,  Mr Samuel Idoko, tasked the learners to make judicious use of the materials and the opportunity before them to acquire basic education. Idoko promised on behalf of Otobi community to support all laudable government policies and programmes located within the  community. Speaking to NAN, the Coordinator of the programme at FGC, Mr Joseph Ogugu, disclosed that a total of 134 learners had already joined the programme. Earlier, the Principal, Federal Government College, Otobi Mr Gabriel Amudipe, commended the permanent secretary  for fulfilling his promise to the learners adding that he would host the first batch of the learners at the end of the year to a diner part. NAN reports that the scheme was designed to meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) especially SDG number four, which highlights inclusive and equitable quality education and promotion of long learning opportunities. The Literacy Centres are to be established across the 104 Federal Government Colleges (FGCs) with the aim of reducing the high rate of illiteracy at the low cadre.