The Russian lady who ran onto the field almost naked during Saturday’s UEFA Champions League final in Madrid between Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur has confessed that she caused the commotion to promote her boyfriend’s adult website. It would be recalled that all eyes were briefly turned away from the Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur players and on to a scantily-clad Russian swimsuit model Kinsey Wolanski, before security guards caught up with and removed her halfway across the pitch. Her tiny black swimsuit bore the phrase “Vitaly Uncensored,” the name of her boyfriend Vital Zdorovetskiy’s adult website, which has 32 million registered users, according to published reports. The stunt grew Wolanski’s Instagram following from about 250,000 users to more than 1 million, according to The Sun. She said: “You guys I can’t even fathom what is going on right now, I feel amazing and so thankful, I really could cry. “I really did this just because I really want to push myself out my comfort zone; I love that feeling – that adrenaline feeling and doing crazy things. “I love to do crazy things all the time, but I never thought it would get to this scale and all of your support and messages and everything is so amazing,” Wolanski posted in a thank-you message on her account. But by Sunday, Instagram had suspended Wolanski’s account. Zdorovetsky himself stole the show at the 2014 World Cup final between German and Argentina when he ran onto the field, exposing his bare chest, which had the scrawled message “Natural born prankster.” Zdorovetsky, who is 27 and also of Russian descent, expressed approval of his girlfriend’s stunt at the Wanda Metropolitano stadium, saying on his Instagram “I can’t wait to marry you.” Wolanski, who is 22, has appeared in Sports Illustrated and Maxim, among other publications. Zdorovetsky’s social media accounts have attracted millions of followers. The match which attracted Wolanski’s action saw Liverpool defeating Tottenham 2-0, to win their sixth Champions League title, third-most of any European club team and trailing only Real Madrid and AC Milan.