A Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Centre for Peace, Transparency and Accountability has urged the reappointed Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, to justify his reappointment by remaining steadfast in the reforms he initiated in the nation’s education sector. The Centre in a statement signed by its Executive Director, Ogheneyero Patrick and made available to newsmen in Abuja on Thursday explained that the call became imperative considering the fact that Adamu performed creditably well in his first coming. “The Nigerian education sector witnessed a leap in your first term as Minister. Under your watch corruption in the sector was fought head-on in your quest to providing unfettered access to quality education within limited resources. “Our tertiary institutions were supervised effectively and its loss glory, high level manpower training and provision of quality library services, infrastructural development among others, are gradually returning. “Your coming back is a testimony that the President Buhari is determined to see the actualisation of the Ministerial Strategic Plan 2019-2023 for the education sector to continue to take its rightful place as a springboard for national development. “We as civil society organisation cannot accept less than what you offered in your first term; we have unwavering confidence in you, and one of the ways you can keep up the tempo is by ensuring that only credible and competent persons get appointed to man any component of our educational institutions. “We shall beam our searchlights on the academia to identify individuals that have stood out in providing qualitative services. The current DVC of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti (FUOYE), Prof. Fasina Abayomi Sunday is one of such individuals that has gone full length in ensuring peaceful and conducive atmosphere for teaching and learning. “Besides mediating between the Academic Union of Universities (ASUU) and the University management over time has influenced investors to the institution and the University now generates funds for to augment the federal allocations,” the statement explained. The CSO added that Prof. Fasina is an example of thinking outside the box and urged the Minister to look out for such personalities that would stop at nothing in proffering solution to challenges. The group urged the minister to consider working with him at levels of higher responsibility for the overall good of the educational sector.