………Bids outgoing Ambassador Smyington farewell Governor Udom Emmanuel has applauded the existing bilateral relationship between Nigeria and the United States of America which has spanned several decades. This is even as the thanked the outgoing US Ambassador Mr Stuart Symington for his contributions to make Akwa Ibom and Nigeria a global family through Economic,Educational and cultural cooperation. The governor spoke during a special banquet held in honour of the outgoing Ambassador and members of the diplomatic corps, at Government House Banquet Hall. He expressed appreciation to the diplomatic corps for their observer role during the last elections in the country and the rich counsel to the stakeholders for a hitch free democratic process. The State chief executive also expressed appreciation to the United state for the choice of Akwa Ibom in the Pilot scheme to reduce the HIV/AIDS pandemic being a coastal state bordering other state and countries. He described Mr. Symington as a brother with a passion for humanity and expressed regret that his tenure in the country as an Ambassador is short lived and wished him well as he returns to his home country. Earlier, Akwa Ibom state government disclosed that it is set to partner the United States of America in healthcare and other development efforts aimed at making life meaningful to humanity. Governor Udom Emmanuel announced this during a courtesy visit on my him by the U.S Ambassador to Nigeria Mr W. Stuart Symington at the Exco chambers government house.uyo.
He said that his administration has invested so much to transform the Health care delivery System to save lives. According to him you cannot talk about human capital development without a functional health care system. Governor Emmanuel expressed appreciation to the US and its development agencies in the plan to partner the state in the fight against H.I.V and AIDS to reduce the scourge in the country and other countries within the Gulf of Guinea. The State chief executive described as alarming the 130,000 target set by the agency to address the menace and called for accuracy and transparency in the records and expenditures of funds allotted for the program. He however said that as a border state in the Coastal Region there is an influx of people from other states and countries to transact business in the state it becomes expedient to partner to save humanity in the global family. Governor Emmanuel said that relevant agencies would have to collaborate with personnel from the state and expressed the hope that with the health care facilities on ground Akwa Ibom best suits the Pilot scheme and thanked the United States for the choice of the state for the program. The governor however took exception to the fact that over 30 billion dollars had been expended in the fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic without any verifiable records, nor input from the relevant agencies in the state. He congratulated Governor Emmanuel on his reelection and the investment in the health care delivery system as well the industrialization of the state. He said the visit which is his last as the Ambassador to Nigeria was to intimate the government and people of the state of the United States contributions to stem the HIV/AIDS pandemic and to provide necessary assistance to those who are infected and to provide drugs, equipment and personnel to help humanity. In his remark, the outgoing Ambassador, Mr Stuart Symington, described Governor Udom Gabriel Emmanuel’s vision to industrialize Akwa Ibom state, equipped health care facilities and provide beautiful road network as placing the State on the global map as the State with the treasure. While expressing appreciation to the people of Akwa Ibom and Nigeria for the hospitality accorded him throughout his stay in the country, the US envoy said that for sustainable development his country has chosen Akwa Ibom for the implementation of the Health care support next year to stem the tide of H.I.V/AIDS pandemic and make the state a place for succor to those affected by the disease. These he said is buoyed by the love for humanity and the future of the younger generations and those unborn. He said that provision is made for a hundred and thirty patients to benefit from the Health support system. High point of the event was a toast proposed by former Ambassador to Russia, Chief Assam Assam SAN, for long lasting relationships and love for humanity in the Global family. Mr Symington applauded Governor Emmanuel for the high premium placed on healthcare delivery system and his efforts at transforming all the Secondary Health centers to meet international standards. He sued for collaboration to stem the tide of the HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases. The Ambassador pledged his governments readiness to partner the state in Education,Healthcare,Agriculture and commerce.