The Special Adviser to the President on the Niger Delta and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Program, Prof. Charles Dokubo has been named as one of the recipients of the 2019 edition of the Africa Sustainable Development Award (ASDA), Peace Building Category. The award is dedicated to recognizing and rewarding the efforts of distinguished Africans who have made unique contributions to development in their countries. In a letter sighted by our correspondent, the Chairman of the screening Committee for the Award and Executive Director, Northern Ghana Aid, Mr. Mustapha Sanah, stated that Dokubo was nominated for the Peace Building category. According to the letter, the committee received several nominations across the continent from different sectors but later narrowed down to Dokubo as a result of his efforts through the amnesty program which has sustained peace in the Niger Delta region. “We are pleased that you have been able to sustain the successful implementation of the re-integration aspect of the program which has seen many ex-agitators to transit to start earning their own money,” the letter read in part. The amnesty programme has successfully complemented the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration through various intervention program put in place to address unemployment across the country. The programme has secured several jobs for beneficiaries of the program across oil servicing firms, aviation sector, hospitality management and underwater welding. Under the leadership of Dokubo, about 23 technology incubation centres are already underway for cluster manufacturing by Agro Trained beneficiaries’ program under the Train the Trainers Initiative. The amnesty program has directly contributed to boosting the economy of the country through increased oil production and minimal disruption in supply of crude oil to refineries across the country. Other nominees for awards include His Excellency Paul Kagame, President of Rwanda; Former President of Botswana and Mo Ibrahim Laureate, Mr. Festus Mogae; Dr. Afari-Djan former Chairman of Ghana Electoral Commission, Madam Mary Chinery Hesse, Chancellor of University of Ghana and others. Northern Ghana Aid is a development organisation working across the continent to build peace across the continent. An investiture will be held on Tuesday 29th of October in Accra, Ghana.