By Emmanuel Afonne Nigerian youths between 13 and 50 years will jostle to win N15 million prize money in a talent hunt television reality show billed to take place across the country in December. A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Blessworld Foundation in partnership with Youth Cultural Association of Nigeria (Youth-CAN) has initiated a talent hunt and youth empowerment TV reality show to enable Nigerian showcase their talents and skills. The reality show known as “Cradle to Fame” has been designed for participants between ages 13 and 50. Project Manager, Mr Opeyemi Babatunde told newsmen in Abuja that the show was aimed at empowering Nigerian youths who have vocational skills and those who are into agriculture. According to Babatunde, N15 million will be up for grabs in the show expected to begin in December in the six geopolitical zones, while the grand finale holds in Umuahia, Abia State. He urged participants to visit www.cradletofame.com to register to guarantee their participation in the show. “We are organising a television show called ‘Credit to Fame’ talent hunt and business TV reality show targeted at discovering young talents in Nigeria. “We want to discover, nurture and promote young minds and entrepreneurs in Nigeria within the age range of 13 to 50 in areas such as music, acting, comedy and professional skills like agriculture, fashion, ICT, among others. “For the winners, we have whopping some of N15 million prize money for grabs. The overall winner will get N5 million, endorsement deals and other accruing benefits. “The first runner-up will get N2 million cash, an affirmation deal and other benefits, while the second runner-up gets N1 million cash with access to microcredit loan facilities. “Other 120 finalists will go home with N50,000 cash reward,” Opeyemi said. He noted that the organisers will work with the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN) and some Nigerian comedian and Nollywood actors and actresses to ensure a successful outing.. “We want to create employment, build capacity and alleviate poverty. “We have reputable brand ambassadors like AY who is the chief host and MC of this event as well as Ebube Nwagbo, Nollywood actress. “The show will take place in the six geopolitical zones of the country and this is not a show to reward one or two participants because up to 125 participants will be rewarded. “Since SMEDAN will be sponsoring, every participant will be trained in their areas of talent. Certificate will equally be issued after the training,” he added.