By Doris Esa The Pakistan Navy is seeking to strengthen bilateral relationship with its Nigerian counterpart, especially in tackling maritime challenges and ensuring security. The Pakistan Chief of Naval Staff (PCNS), Adm. Zafar Abbasi, disclosed this when he visited the Chief of the Naval Staff, (CNS), Vice-Admiral Ibok- Ete Ibas, in Abuja. Abbasi said he was in Nigeria to hold bilateral talks with Ibas on how the two countries could strengthen their relationships. He said the Pakistan government valued the long standing relationship that had existed between Nigeria and Pakistan. “I am happy with the warm reception I received today by the Nigerian Navy, we value our relationship with Nigeria,’’ he said. The PCNS said that although the relationship between the two countries dated back to history, he added however that there was the need to “further enhance this bilateral relationship’’. He said the relationship could be strengthened economically, politically, among others. “This visit is a step in that direction, I am confident that we will have a tangible discussion to further strengthen our bilateral relationship,’’ he said. Ibas in his remarks reaffirmed that Nigeria and Pakistan have had a long standing relationship. The CNS said that he had also benefited from the bilateral ties between the two countries. “I have also benefited from this relationship, being a product of Pakistan Naval College,’’ Ibas said. He said the countries had a history in strategically tackling same challenges in their maritime domains. The CNS said: “ I think now the time is apt to synergise and re-strategise to surmount some of the challenges.’’ Earlier, the Pakistan naval chief had visited the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, and reiterated that his visit was to further strengthen the relationship between the two Navy.
Responding, Olonisakin recalled that the relationship between Nigeria and Pakistan dated back to the colonial days and expressed optimism that it would be sustained. (NAN)
O