The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of taking opposition to a ridiculous level. The group said that the latest claim by PDP of wasteful expenditure and stolen funds running into N14 trillion under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration was laughable. According to the group, allegations that such an amount was stolen under the President’s watch have no real basis in fact. In a statement signed by its Chairman Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary Cassidy Madueke, BMO said that the latest act by the opposition party could only have come from comic characters. “PDP’s latest claim is just a rehash of what this same party put out in a statement sometime in August last year when it demanded an explanation from President Buhari on an alleged N9tn contract said to have been awarded by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). “We recall that back then, the Information Minister Lai Mohammed urged the party to direct all questions to the Minister of State for Petroleum Ibe Kachikwu who made what looked like the original allegation in a letter to the President. “Kachikwu had even as far back as October 2017 clarified that the issue had more to do with governance, not fraud at the NNPC, at a three-day Nigerian content workshop organised by the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board in Owerri, Imo state. “Inspite of this, PDP has continued to raise the claims to tar the integrity of the Buhari administration with the hope that, like mud it would stick”. The pro-Buhari group also said it was surprised that any journalist worth his salt would put his name on a statement that is filled with spurious claims that have over the years been debunked as fake news. “The claims made in the PDP statement are cock and bull stories, just like the allegation that Keystone Bank shares belonged to President Buhari and his family. Of course, opposition elements were gleefully spreading this as part of their campaign for the Presidential election. “The N14tn the party claimed was stolen is just slightly higher than N11.5tn, Nigeria’s annual total revenue from crude oil sales since June 2015. “Even the so-called oil subsidy sleaze was investigated by Federal lawmakers at the instance of Senate President Bukola Saraki, and it was discovered that the NNPC has a revolving fund of $1.05 billion which it used to directly import and distribute fuel. “This can never be compared with the massive subsidy fraud that characterised the PDP years and which saw a number of party chieftains benefitting directly or through proxies from a scheme that cost the country trillions of naira and for which some subsidy thieves had been convicted and jailed. “PDP’s spokesperson was a senior media aide to the then Senate President David Mark at the height of the multiple investigations into the subsidy scam and should know better. “Also, the so-called NEMA scam is a figment of the imagination of PDP leaders and their media handlers as Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who is the target of this allegations, has since been cleared of any wrongdoing and no fund meant for Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) in North East Nigeria is missing,” the group said. The group added that President Buhari won the 2019 election fair and square and has no reason to be keen on holding on to power for ulterior reason.