………………..Berates NSCDC for prolonged silence A civil society group has given the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu a two-day ultimatum to ensure justice for ASC Ogah Ochigbo Jumbo and other Nigerians by men of the Police Force. The group, Joint Civil Society Action Against Extra Judicial Killings (JCSAAEJK) gave the ultimatum on Monday while briefing newsmen on the spate of extra-judicial killings and the need for justice, with particular reference to the killing of ASC Jumbo. ASC Jumbo who died in March after an altercation with traffic police and subsequent arrest, was an official of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corp (NSCDC). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the police had issued a statement saying that the NSCDC official slumped and died while behind the counter after being arrested for traffic violation. However, Co-Convener of the coalition, Barr. Paul Edeh alleged that the Police lied in its report saying that eye-witnesses at the scene of the event confirmed that the late Jumbo was ‘beaten to stupor before being dragged to police station. He further alleged that rather than take him to a hospital he was left for over 30 minutes under the assumption that he was pretending, despite pleas from his wife and kids whom he was conveying on the fateful day. The group therefore condemned in totality the spate of extra judicial killings across the country by men of the Nigerian Police, stressing that it have seemingly become the order of the day. He then called on the IGP to immediately set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the killing and prosecute those involved to serve as deterrent to others. “The Inspector General of Police should constitute a Commission of Inquiry to investigate all cases of extra judicial killings by officers of the Nigerian Police Force across Nigeria and met-out commensurate sanctions based on the report of the Commission of Inquiry, as well as prosecute any police officer found culpable in the killing of innocent Nigerian(s) to serve as a deterrent to other officers. “We demand that Mr. Igekele Ogunfemi the Divisional Police Officer of Nyanya Police Station and his men involved in beating ASC Ogah Jumbo to death be arrested, investigated and prosecuted along with the two Police men said to be in Police custody,” he said. “We also demand that the Autopsy Report of ASC Ogah Jumbo be published within 24 hours for Nigerians to know the real cause of death of Mr Ogah Jumbo, and the Nigerian Police Force to tender unreserved apology for the false information presented by ACP Frank Mba in his press conference of 21st March 2019. “The Ag. IGP should also immediately pay a condolence visit to the widow of Ogah Jumbo to commensurate with her over the brutal killing of her husband,” he said. The group also berated the NSCDC management for having kept quiet for too long rather than fight for justice for their deceased colleague. The CSO wondered that if a ‘security official could be so brutally murdered by fellow security operative, then what was the fate of the ordinary civilian Nigerians. The convener charged the NSCDC to stand up and defend their own. Meanwhile, Human Rights Lawyer Emmanuel Ogebe Esq, has expressed worry that the nation is further being threatened by those saddled with the responaibility to ensure peace. “They did not respect the fact that he was a fellow uniform man, if a uniform man can be killed by a fellow uniform man this shows that we are not safe. Who kills a man in front of his wife and children? It is also a failure on the NSCDC for not making a single statement since this incidence and we demand to know their stand on this issue,” he stated. Also speaking during the news conference, co-convener Aisha Yusufu called on all Nigerians to see themselves as victims of police brutality and join their voices to the demand for a renewed action towards ensuring justice for the murdered officer.