 By Ikenna Uwadileke
Former minister of Police Affairs, Humphrey Abba, has advised  Nigerians to be mindful of who they engage to serve them as domestic servants. Abba stated this in Abuja, at a special training for domestic service personnel, organised by the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC), Asokoro Division, in collaboration with Rightangle PR, a public relations firm. Abba who spoke at the event with the theme: “Dealing with Contemporary Issues of Domestic Security,’’ noted that domestic servants were critical in improving security at the home and the larger society. He emphasised the need to teach them how to conduct themselves without drifting. While expressing concern that many Nigerians had little or no knowledge about the background of their domestic personnel, said that many homes were attacked due to negative communication from domestic servants. Abba, therefore, urged the participants to avoid negative communication capable of corrupting good manners. On his part, Dr Ike Neliaku, Chairman, PCRC Asokoro Division, said that the training aimed at educating domestic service personnel about being mindful of simple security measures. Neliaku pointed out that information management was a critical aspect in ensuring adequate security measures, particularly what they say about their principals. According to Neliaku, as lowly as they are placed, they are critical to the security of the society. “Talk about information management and what they say about their principals, they end up giving vital information without meaning any harm. “Because they are careless, they are feeding the enemy with information which he takes advantage of to attack their principals. “They must take necessary measures to protect themselves, protect the household where they are serving and protect the offices where they are working,’’ Neliaku said. He further urged the domestic personnel to always censor what they discuss with outsiders and be cautious of the kind of friends they keep. Mr Bitrus Yakubu, representative of District Head of Puduma 3, urged the organisers to make the programme a regular one with a view to strengthening efforts to educate more domestic servants on effective security tips. According to Yakubu, the issue of security is everybody’s business. He urged the participants to share the knowledge in their various communities. One of the participants, Mr Austine Ajuloh, said that the training was apt and provided him the opportunity to understand new trends in domestic insecurity in Asokoro and its environs. 