By Fortune Abang Nigerian Christian pilgrims on pilgrimage to Israel on Sunday prayed collectively for God’s blessings upon their country. The pilgrims, who are the first batch of the Plateau State 2019 Pilgrims, include clergymen and winners of the Second edition of the National Bible Quiz competition. They prayed collectively on pilgrimage to the Basilica of the Nativity, which is recorded as the historical birth place of Jesus Christ located in Bethlehem, Jerusalem in the West Bank. Fr George Gorap, Executive-Secretary of Plateau State Christian Pilgrims Welfare Board, who led the pilgrims in prayer at the Holy Land, prayed for a new lease of life for Nigerians. He said, “We ask our almighty father the birth of new things in our lives, in the lives of our children, in our homes, in our states, and in our country. “We pray unfruitfulness be conquered in our lives in Jesus’ name. “May the God of all possibilities make out our lives and the life of our children and Nigerians encounter you in Jesus name. “As Jesus Christ came into the world as solution and that his birth on earth brings solution to all problems in our lives, we ask all these through Christ our Lord.” Winner of the second National Bible Quiz contest commended Nigeria-Israeli relations, saying it should be strengthened to promote knowledge sharing and bring about development. Mr Chukwuowo Jerry, Winner of the Bible Quiz contest described the visit to Israel as a wonderful opportunity while thanking the Israeli Embassy and Nigeria for providing platforms for pilgrims to gain experience. Jerry said, “I am very happy to be where Jesus was born and I am very happy to be here. “I thank the embassy for what it has done to provide the opportunity. May the good Lord bless them.” The high point of the pilgrimage was prayer by the pilgrims and Christmas shopping in the Holy Land. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Bethlehem is the town where Jesus was born in the Palestinian territories and also the most famous town associated with Christmas story. Christmas and the Jewish festival “Hanukkah” are often celebrated at about the same time. Christmas is often celebrated by Christians on Dec. 25 while Hanukkah is celebrated from the evening of Dec. 22 to Dec. 30. (NAN)