A coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) has pleaded with the National Assembly especially the Senate to save the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) from collapse following the confusion trailing the appointment of its board members. The CSOs – Guardians of Democracy and Development (GODD), Empowerment for Unemployed Youths Initiative (EUYI), and Civil Society Groups made the plea on Friday in a letter cited by NAN and addressed to the President of Senate, Ahmed Lawan. The letter titled: “A request for dissolution of Senate committee on Niger Delta and probe of the Chairman of the Senate Committee, Se. Peter Nwaoboshi” demanded the dissolution of the Senate committee on Niger Delta as presently constituted. The letter signed by leader of the group Solomon Adodo, also demanded invalidation of the NDDC Board screening conducted by the Nwaoboshi-led Committee for alleged bias. The CSOs in their letter urged the senate to organise a public hearing for stakeholders to expose some of the activities of the NDDC which they claimed had been shrouded in secrecy in the past. “It is a known fact that trillions of naira was injected into the Niger Delta Development Commission since its inception in 2000 with no commensurate developmental outputs to match these huge allocations. “The NDDC was thus allegedly converted to a cash cow for certain cabals,” the letter read. The CSOs in another letter addressed to the Minister of Niger Delta, Mr Godswill Akpabio, urged the minister not to be intimidated into discarding the Interim Management Committee of the NDDC set up to probe activities in the commission. “We are however delighted at the fact that you have initiated appropriate actions to halt this negative trend of looting and impoverishing Niger Deltans. “The recent forensic audit of NDDC initiated by the President Muhammadu Buhari government and for which you set up an Interim Management Committee to oversee a transparent process is indeed commendable. “We are also aware of the fact that you have been faced with stiff resistance and consistent persecution just to truncate the probe. “We have therefore gathered here to urge you to remain undeterred in the quest to restore the pride of Niger Delta, sanitize the NDDC and bolster the good image of this government in the anti-corruption war. “Let it be emphasised that this is the biggest singular blow being dealt the monster of corruption since the inception of this government and we must ensure its success.” It would be recalled that the CSOs embarked on peaceful protest on Friday to the National Assembly and the Niger Delta Ministry, to make their positions known.