By Peter Ejiofor Foremost multinational financial services provider, Zenith Bank Plc has launched “Style by Zenith 2.0’’, the second edition of its flagship lifestyle fair, dedicated to intentionally celebrate the “small’’ things that make “big’’ differences in people’s lives. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that first launched in 2018, the “Style by Zenith’’ initiative was created with the objective of supporting and creating value for customers by focusing on various aspects of their lifestyle. The bank said on Friday that this year, “Style by Zenith 2.0’’ following the success of the maiden edition, would take things up a notch with the theme, “Style the Life You Desire’’, aimed at encouraging Nigerians to live their best lives and be extraordinary. The platform seeks to inspire people to be authentic, while showing them that with ordinary talent and extraordinary effort, they could thrive and make real change in this world. On the rationale behind “Style by Zenith 2.0’’, the Executive Director of Zenith Bank Plc., Dr Temitope Fasoranti, said: “Banking, for Zenith Bank means going that extra mile to be present in the lives of our customers. “Driven by a culture of excellence and providing cutting edge solutions, the bank is championing this cause to enable individuals and businesses to grow wealth.’’ He added that: “Beyond providing financial solutions, Zenith Bank Plc seeks to be a reliable partner to her customers, ensuring that they excel on every front. “With Style by Zenith 2.0, the bank continues in her commitment to empowering individuals and entrepreneurs by celebrating real talents. “We will be helping people do what they know how to do best and repositioning them for greater levels of success in their various endeavours.’’ This year’s programme includes an interesting line up of activities all culminating in the three-day Lifestyle Fair taking place at the end of 2019. “Kicking off the array of activities is the Style by Zenith 2.0 Fitness Walks being held in conjunction with Mass Medical Missions, a non-profit organisation, and Venus Medicare Ltd, a leading Health Management Organisation in the country. “The Fitness Walk will serve as a platform to promote Mission Pink Cruise – a project of Mass Medical Missions supported by Zenith Bank. `It is aimed at taking holistic cancer prevention and health promotion to various communities across the country using Mobile Cancer Centres (MCC) nicknamed Pink Cruises, which is the first of its kind in Nigeria,’’ the bank said. Scheduled to hold in August, these Fitness Walks and Cancer Screening exercises will hold in five cities across Nigeria – Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Kano and Onitsha. Interested individuals are invited to register their participation by visiting the Zenith Bank website at www.zenithbank.com/style. Aside the fitness walks across the country, there are a lot of activities such as conferences, online engagements, and a special event for models that builds on the masterclass held last year, not forgetting the special play arcade and activities designed for children at the fair. The variety of events and activities lined up also come with free medical check-ups like free eye, dental and cancer tests, among other special promotions both online and at the events leading to the final crescendo which is the three-Day Lifestyle Fair. With initiatives such as these and many more to come, Style by Zenith 2.0 promises to offer an all-encompassing experience touching on key aspects of the lifestyle of Zenith customers and the public. The Style by Zenith 2.0 platform is also a testament to the priority given to Small and medium Enterprises (SMEs) and the retail segment of the market by the bank. Together with her various partners, Zenith Bank will be laying the foundation for a future where individuals and SMEs can live up to their full potential. NAN also reports that another of the bank’s partners in the project, Fashion One, the leading global fashion and lifestyle channel will once again be working with Zenith Bank on the initiative. Established in 1990, Zenith Bank Plc is a leading multinational bank providing corporate, business, retail and personal banking services through its network of over 500 branches and business offices, serving millions of customers. The brand is verifiably a leader in the deployment of various channels of banking technology and has become synonymous with the deployment of state-of-the-art technologies in banking.