There are indications that the rape case involving Mrs Busola Dakolo, and founder of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, has taken a frightening dimension following the resolve of Mr Timi Dakolo, the victim’s husband, to defend his wife with his life. According to a post by Mr Dakolo on his Instagram page on Saturday, the petition sent by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, IGP Special Tactical Squad, Force Headquarters, Abuja, is a sign that all is not well. He also raised an alarm over the movement of strange men in a white Toyota mini bus around his house. Click in the box below and see for yourself.   STRANGE MEN AT HOUSE,…WITH GUNS A post shared by  Timi dakolo (@timidakolo) on Jul 20, 2019 at 8:49am PDT  He, however, shared his fears on his social media page saying: “Our lawyers had told us to get ready for this letter. We have long been ready for your intimidation and dirtiness. For your Ilorin methods and underhand tactics. “A pastor? Bribing investigating officials to delay summons? Paying dirty bloggers to fabricate things that cover the truth, going to the IG’s people under dark to force this case to be posted to Abuja? Now this an investigation in Abuja, when you havent answered to the rape case against you in Lagos? Rubbishing the legal and criminal system? “And sending a bus load of armed policemen and shady men lying in wait to intimidate my wife and children today, forcing their way into my home? Is that how the REAL police delivers a letter? This is best you can do? This is why all the hurting women and families’ haven’t come against you? “You picked the wrong one and you picked the wrong time. Nigerians are more awake than you think. “If it’s a fight you want, it’s a war you will get…your filthiness under the guise of christianity I will expose. Every single thing. “I will fight for my wife and my children -it’s the promise I made with my life and one I intend to keep .I will defend them from the unrelenting attack of a weak man who thinks he can use money and power to cover for all of his crimes. “Like I said, we have since been ready. GIVE US THE FIRE, THEN WATCH ME WORK!”   Our lawyers had told us to get ready for this letter. We have long been ready for this type of institutionalized intimidation and dirtiness. Investigating officials have frustrated as a result of underhand delay? Dirty bloggers are fabricating things that cover the truth , going to the IG’s people under dark to force this case to be posted to Abuja? Now this: a false investigation in Abuja when our own petition filed since June has not been answered and NO INVITATION HAS BEEN MADE TO THE ACCUSED IN A RAPE CASE????! NOT ONE MOVEMENT TOWARDS JUSTICE??? Rubbishing the legal and criminal system ? And sending a bus load of questionable armed “policemen” and shady men lying in wait to intimidate my wife and children today, forcing their way into my home? Is that how the REAL police delivers a letter ? This is best you can do? This is why all the hurting women and families havent come out with HORRIBLE THINGS DONE TO THEM???!! You picked the wrong one and you picked the wrong time. Nigerians are more awake than you think . I will fight for my wife and my children -it’s the promise I made with my life and one I intend to keep .I will defend them from the unrelenting attack of a weak man who thinks he can use money and power to cover for all of his crimes. Like I said ,we have since been ready . GIVE US THE FIRE, THEN WATCH ME WORK! A post shared by  Timi dakolo (@timidakolo) on Jul 20, 2019 at 12:14pm PDT 