By Emmanuel Acha Most Rev. Emmanuel Chukwuma, Archbishop of Enugu Ecclesiastical Province, Anglican Communion, has appealed to Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State to leave legacies that posterity would remember him for. To this end, Chukwuma urged the governor to choose aides that would assist in translating his vision for the state into reality in his second term in office. The clergy made the appeal on Sunday in Enugu in a sermon during an Inter-denominational Christian Service for the second term inauguration of the governor. The priest, who spoke on the topic, `Setting the Nation on Higher Level of Peace and Fear of God’, said that the governor had laid a good foundation for a successful second term. Chukwuma however, said that for the governor to succeed in his aspirations, he must avoid people with hypocritical and cosmetic love for him. “A lot is ahead of you and what you need is to find out those who understand the needs of the state. These are the type you must choose as either commissioners or others,” he said. The bishop, who encouraged the governor to be firm in decision making and not to be muscled by ‘career politicians’, said that most of the government appointees in the state had outlived their usefulness. “Tell those that have been working with you to stay away. Many of them are what we call, any government in power’. “Politics is not a profession. So, they should take a rest let others be given the opportunity. “If you have done well as a government appointee, your work will speak for you but if you have not done well your conscience will judge you,” he said. Chukwuma urged the governor to put a searchlight on revenue collectors in the state, adding that much underhanded businesses were going on among such people. “They print receipts for backyard fees and levies. These are the type of people you have and they must go,” he said. The archbishop said that the governor had achieved much with little resources but observed that a lot still needed to be done. He said that employment under the current administration in the state had been second to none just as road construction had been taken to a new height. Chukwuma said that the second term of the governor would be more challenging as other critical areas like agriculture must be looked into. He said that projects in the state must continue to be distributed evenly and that the education and health sectors must be taken more seriously. “An infrastructure that President Muhammadu Buhari will come and inaugurate must be achieved in your second term,” he said. He commended the governor for taking measures to complete the abandoned International Conference Centre which was started by former governor Chimaroke Nnamani, adding that the project must be inaugurated by Ugwuanyi. “This second term will be a success for the governor and his team. Do not allow the events around you to control you but allow God to direct you. “I followed the last election and discovered the polls in Enugu were the most peaceful. It is God that did it and we are here to rejoice,” chukwuma said. Among dignitaries that attended the service were the governor and his wife, Monica, the deputy governor, Mrs Cecilia Ezeilo, Speaker of the state assembly, Chief Edward Ubosi and the Chief Judge of Enugu State, Justice Priscilla Emehelu. Others are legislators, members of the Enugu State Executive Council and members of the clergy. (NAN)