Britain’s Prince Harry and wife Meghan on Wednesday announced their new “dream” son’s name is Archie, hours after showing him off to the world for the first time. “The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are pleased to announce they have named their first born child: Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor,” the couple announced on their Instagram account, ending months of speculation. The informal choice defied the bookmakers’ predictions and confirmed the couple’s determination not to be bound by tradition. Archie’s proud parents emerged in front of the cameras inside Windsor Castle earlier Wednesday to show off their son, ahead of introducing him to great-grandmother Queen Elizabeth II. “He’s just been a dream,” said a smiling Meghan, 37, in her first public comments since giving birth to the seven-pound, three-ounce (3.26-kilogram) baby, who stayed firmly asleep during his public unveiling. “He has the sweetest temperament. He’s really calm,” added the Duchess of Sussex, as Prince Harry cradled the newborn, wrapped in a white blanket, by her side. Royal watchers had been desperate for a glimpse of the new baby, who is seventh in the line to the British throne, ever since the couple announced his birth to their 6.5 million followers on Instagram with the message “It’s a BOY!” “Parenting is amazing,” said 34-year-old Harry, the day after brother Prince William — two years his senior and with three children of his own — had jokingly welcomed him to the “sleep deprivation society that is parenting”. “We’re just so thrilled to have our own little bundle of joy.” Meghan added: “It’s been a special couple of days.” Royal fan Margaret Tyler told AFP that Harry appeared to be “absolutely besotted” by his son. “He looks absolutely adorable, he is like a little doll, isn’t he?”, she said outside Windsor Castle, west of London. “What proud parents he’s got.” The couple revealed Queen Elizabeth’s husband Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, had got a sneak preview in a chance encounter in the corridors of Windsor Castle. “We just bumped into the Duke as we were walking by, which was so nice,” said Meghan. “It’ll be a nice moment to introduce the baby to more family.” Prince Charles, on a visit to Germany on Tuesday, said he was “obviously delighted” and “impatient” to see his fourth grandchild. The heir to the British throne, speaking in German, said he would see the baby “in the coming days when things are calmer”. Crowds have gathering outside Windsor Castle all week to wish them well. It was a rare piece of good news for a nation consumed by the protracted Brexit drama. And it has given people a chance to celebrate royal traditions — this time with a young American twist.