By Emmanuel Afonne A former governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa has identified unemployment, poverty, drug abuse and neighbourhood isolation amongst other vices as major reasons for the continuous increase in crimes and criminality in the country. Bafarawa, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who disclosed this on Thursday in Abuja when he unveiled the Attahiru Bafarawa Foundation’s proposed “National Security and Peace Development Summit”. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Bafarawa Foundation seeks to support the strengthening of institutional capacity of those charged with managing crimes by promoting processes that enhances broader societal participation in them, greater coordination and deepened accountability. The former governor lamented that the unending terrorists attacks in Northeast, persisted banditry with violent kidnapping and killings in the Northwest has not only destroyed socio-economic infrastructures, but has made the regions undesirable destination to investors. According to him, Nigeria’s security situation has degenerated to the extent that efforts and synergy have to be garnered across party affiliations, hence his foundation’s resolve to provide a platform where both serving and retired security chiefs and other experts would use in proffering workable solutions. “It is against this backdrop that the Bafarawa Foundation has supported the partnership of Kaduna State Government, the community and other northern state government such as Katsina, Sokoto, Kebbi, Niger, Kano, Jigawa and Zanfara to undertake this resolution programme. “This meeting arose from concerns among government institutions, social, political activities and security agencies about the escalation of crime and youth involvement in these crimes in Nigeria, which were all too often linked to insatiable quest for wealth production, terrorism and extremism,” Bafarawa said. He decried that Nigeria’s economy was gradually crumbling with devastating effects on the wellbeing of its citizenry, adding that the summit would help checkmate crimes in the country. The PDP chieftain noted that being in opposition does not mean he should not stand against evil. “When kidnappers kidnap their victims they don’t care if the person is PDP or APC member, all they want is the ransom or money. These act is destroying the economy,” he said. He stated that weakened governance structures in the country, apart from affecting economic growth,  has also undermined the rule of law and the potential for human development. The former governor further said: “The security situation, ineffective security governance and social development arrangements undermine Nigeria’s ability to establish and maintain a viable economy that can sustain acceptable levels of well-being for majority of its citizens particularly the young and vulnerable. “Weakened governance structures further undermine the rule of law and the potential for human development.” While he noted that security agencies had done fairly well tackling insecurity, he, however, said the security apparatus in the country needed to be repositioned for more effective policing of the public space. He added that the forth-coming national security and peace development summit would contribute to the ongoing efforts by both the federal and state government as well as community groups to address the recurrent violence.