By Chijioke Okoronkwo Sen. Kabiru Gaya (APC-Kano South)  and Dr Babangida Nguroje, a former Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives have commended the outgoing governors under the aegis of Progressive Governors’ Forum for the service they rendered to Nigeria. The duo spoke with State House correspondents at the margins of Progressive Governors Forum Award Ceremony in honour of President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa Banquet Hall, Abuja on Friday. Out-going governors of Borno (Kashim Shettima), Imo (Rochas Okorocha), Nasarawa (Tanko Al-Makura), Ogun (Ibikunle Amosun), Oyo (Abiola Ajimobi), Yobe (Ibrahim Gaidam), Zamfara (Abdulaziz Yari) and former governor of Osun, Rauf Aregbesola were also honoured with awards during the occasion. Gaya, a former Governor of Kano State, thanked God for returning Buhari to office. “The outgoing progressive governors deserve commendation; and for those governors coming to the Senate, I welcome them and I wish them well. “I was also an ex-governor and I am in the Senate now; they should work as a team for the country. “As for the programme today, I am very impressed by the arrangement by the Progressive Governors Forum and the synergy; the relationship. “When we formed the merger of APC, we became united as a team and fought the ruling government and I am happy that we are still united and working as a team. I thank the president for encouraging us to still remain united,’’ he said. On his part, Nguroje, who is the Chairman, Board of Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission, wished the outgoing governors good luck in their further endeavours. He said that they had contributed their quota to the development of the country. “I urge the incoming governors to do their best so that we can move to the next level. “I urge Nigerians to be patient and tolerant and support the president so that he can provide dividends of democracy in our next level,’’ he said. Buhari, had in his address, said there was need to build bridges across the different divides and institute faith in the unity and indivisibility of one Nigeria. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, APC governors, senators, members of the House of Representatives, APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole and party chieftains attended the event