By Sumaila Ogbaje The Chartered Institute of Logistic and Transport (CILT) has reiterated the need to professionalise transport and logistics business in Nigerian aviation and road transport sectors. Mr Alex Okosun, Abuja branch Chairman of CILT, disclosed this in an interview with newsmen on Friday in Abuja. Okosun said that the institute had embarked on aggressive membership drive to bring in many people in transport and logistics for the purpose of instilling professionalism in them. “It is in this light that we have organised our first executive stakeholders’ forum on the vision and strategy for the 21st century logistics and transport organisations. “We want to bring together all the transport and logistics players in Nigeria to discuss the importance of this strategic industry and also create awareness about the business,” he said. Mr Adegbuwagun Adekunle, General Secretary, CILT, Abuja Branch, said that logistics and transport had remained the life wire of every nation’s economy. Adekunle said that the institute was aware that the transport industry in Nigeria had been dominated by quarks because of the broad nature of the industry. According to him, we have aviation, rail, maritime and road mode and what we have tried to do in instilling professionalism is to start from a particular sector. “We are currently looking at the aviation sector because airport is the gateway. People see us and say we are corrupt or we are incompetent based on the kind of people they first met at the airport even before getting to their hotel rooms. “What we are now doing is to make sure that our membership drive in the airport increase and try to sanitise that area. Why we pick the aviation sector is that we want the people that are coming into the country to know that we have professionals in Nigeria. “When we are done with aviation sector, we will move to the road mode. In the road mode, we are developing different programmes to bring people in and that is why we are organising the stakeholders’ forum on the vision and strategy for the industry. “Why we chose the theme is that most people that will be participating in the programme are from the road mode who will be sensitised on the vision and strategy that can sustain transport sector in the 21st century.” Adekunle said that many transport companies in Nigeria had been folding up because of lack of vision and strategy for survival as well as the fact that the nation’s transport sector had not evolved. He said that the institute had started engaging the leaders of the various road transport associations to introduce the vocational programmes of CILT to their members.