By Isaac Aregbesola The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has expressed shock over the death of Rev. Mrs Helen Okoye, who died at the age of 63 on May 2, at the National Hospital Abuja CAN said this in a condolence message by its Acting National General Secretary, Mr Daramola Bade on Friday in Abuja. “We receive the news of the sudden demise of Rev. Mrs Okoye early hours of May 2, with shock. “On behalf of CAN, we wish to express our deepest sympathy to Rev. Wiliams Okoye, her husband, members of All Christian Fellowship and entire family members over the death of Mrs Okoye. “Her death is a painful resignation and separation from the majority who knew her because of her distinguished dedication and service to God and humanity. “We offer our deep felt condolence and pray to the Lord to grant the husband, the members of all Christian Fellowship and the entire family the grace to bear the irreparable loss,” he said. Also, the President of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Rev. Felix Omobude, said the organisation received with sense of soberness, the report of the transition to eternal glory of Rev Mrs Okoye. According to a statement by the National Administrative Secretary of PFN, Pastor Akinola Damilare. “May the Lord grant the family fortitude to bear the loss and comfort the family on all sides,” Omobude said. The Deputy General Overseer, All Christians Fellowship Mission Christian, Rev. Michael Okoye, also expressed profound sadness over the death  of the wife of their leader. He said the death of Mrs Okoye was a great loss to the entire members of All Christians Fellowship Mission. According to him, until her sudden death, Evangelist Okoye was the founder and coordinator of the Fellowship of Pastors’ Wives and Women in Ministry based in Abuja. “She was also the National Director of Worship, and the National President of the Women Fellowship, All Christians Fellowship Mission and a well sort after speaker in Christian women programmes nationwide. “All the members of the church and the body of Christ nationwide will miss her and the vacuum she left will be difficult to fill. “We pray God gives the husband, the General Overseer, her immediate family members and members of the Church the  fortitude to bear the great loss.’’ (NAN)