By Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma Sunu Assurances Nigeria Plc on Tuesday assured shareholders and stakeholders of enhanced value creation and excellent service delivery following its partnership with SUNU Group. Mr Samuel Ogbodu, the company’s Managing Director, gave the assurance at the 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Lagos. Ogbodu said that the partnership with SUNU Group would provide SUNU Assurances Nigeria with organisational capabilities and competencies which would be harnessed to create and deliver value to its esteemed clients. He said that the company had been positioned to leverage on SUNU Group’s vast network of knowledge capital, financial strength and technical resources in quest to differentiate its offerings and service standards in the Nigerian marketplace. Ogbodu reassured shareholders of the company’s commitment to keep providing tailor-made products and better service on which SUNU Group have built their reputation across Africa. He said that SUNU Assurances Nigeria PLC, a pan African insurance company with presence in 14 African countries, would continue to stregthen its balance sheet to ensure value creation. Speaking on the company’s rebranding activities, Ogbodu said that it had mapped out strategies aimed at informing stakeholders and the general public of the name change. “The company’s rebranding activities involved both internal and external communication strategies to inform stakeholders and the general public of the change of name and to raise awareness of the introduction of the SUNU Group’s presence in Nigeria. “The rebranding not only included a change in the company’s aesthetics but also in critical service functions and delivery as the company is focused on leveraging technology to provide quality insurance offerings to our various customers reflecting our pan African presence as a full-fledged member of the SUNU Group. “The rebranding is strategic and designed to align with the exemplary brand of our parent company (SUNU Group). “It is worthy to note that SUNU Group is a foremost Pan-African Insurance Group with asset base of over $623 million and operations in 14 African countries and 23 office locations spanning West and Central Africa. “It is on a mission to be an insurance company recognised for excellent client services, using cutting edge technology, motivated workforce and good business ethics to meet stakeholders’ expectations. “This is being driven by innovative service delivery, products development, cost management, customers experience and ensuring proper balance in all dealings,” Ogbodu said. The shareholders at the meeting ratified the appointment of Ogbodu as the Managing Director/Chief Executive of SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc as well as that of Mr Adeleke Emmanuel Hassan as Executive Director, Technical & Operations. The appointments were in line with the company’s vision of growing its business consistently over the next five years to become one of Nigeria’s 10 largest underwriting companies. SUNU Assurances Nigeria was incorporated as Equity Assurance Nigeria on Dec. 13, 1984 and was licensed to underwrite all classes of general business. The company is a corporate member of the West African Insurance Company Association (WAICA) and the Nigeria Insurers’ Association (NIA), the official umbrella of registered insurance companies in Nigeria, as well as The Africa Insurance Organisation (AIO). SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc is the parent company of SUNU Assurances Limited, a Ghanaian subsidiary that started operations in Ghana in 2008. The company changed its name from Equity Assurance Plc to SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc with due approval on March 29, 2018, following Sunu Group’s acquisition of majority stake in Equity Assurance Plc. (NAN)