By Tukur Muntari/Kano The Kano State Government said on Saturday that the court order purportedly stopping the inauguration of the four emirs in Kano was belated as the emirs were appointed on Thursday 9 May. Beside, the government said it was yet to receive the order restraining Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje from further action. Abba Anwar, the Chief Press Secretary to Ganduje said the court order was reportedly issued around 5pm on Friday May 10, 2019, a day after the new emirs had formally accepted their appointments. His statement suggested that the inauguration of the emirs of Rano, Karaye, Gaya and Bichi would go ahead on Saturday as planned. “Letters of the Notification of Appointment were written from the office of the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, since Thursday, May 9, 2019 and were despatched to the concerned Emirs the following day Friday, May 10, 2019, in the very early hours of the day,” Anwar said. The letters dated May 9, 2019, had reference SSG/REPA/5/A/86/T and were addressed to the newly appointed Emirs. Each letter read: “In accordance with the power conferred on the Governor by the Kano State Emirs (Appointment and Deposition) Amended Law 2019 (1440 AH) which provides the creation of more Emirates. “ I wish to convey the approval of His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Kano State, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje OFR for your appointment as First Class Emir of (Bichi) (Karaye) (Rano) (Gaya) Emirate.” According to the statement, all the four new emirs had formally accepted the appointment. It explained that the new Emir of Karaye, Dr Ibrahim Abubakar II forwarded his acceptance letter at about 12 noon on Friday, that of Rano, Alhaji Tafida Abubakar Il around 10:15 am while the Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero and the Emir of Gaya, Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir, forwarded theirs at 10am and 10:30am respectively. The  statement therefore said the ceremony expected to hold at the Sani Abacha Indoor Stadium, Kofar Mata, this Saturday was merely for the new emirs to thank the Governor for appointing them