Warning: If you have not seen season 8 or episode 3, stop now, this story contains spoilers. Sunday night’s episode 3 of season 8 was was all about The Night King, and by now we all know his fate. – He’s dead. Vladimir Furdik, the man behind the mysterious and terrifying character, who was killed by Arya Stark (Maisie Williams), is speaking out for the first time about his death. “It was a very emotional day and night,” Furdik candidly told “The Hollywood Reporter.” “It was so strong. I spent all my energy playing it, and (Williams) as well. It was not an easy day. It was cold. There was rain. She was on a wire, in a harness, jumping many times. “It wasn’t just the one time; it was maybe 15 times. When I have to hold her under the jaw and it looks like she dies, we had to spend a lot of energy on that particular scene. It was very, very difficult. “We are very good friends. We know each other. It wasn’t easy for me to (pretend to) hurt her. When I grabbed her under the jaw, it wasn’t easy (on a practical level). “If you make a bad move — if you don’t grab her well — she could have an injury. So I was under pressure and she was under pressure. It was not an easy day.” That super dark Winterfell battle that everyone was squinting to see actually took three months to shoot and Furdik said it was just as hard to pull off as you might think. “This was one of the hardest jobs of my life,” he said. “We had meetings with (the individual actors for their own battles), depending on who’s fighting with who Jorah (Iain Glen), Daenerys (Emilia Clarke), and what they are doing. For every battle with these actors, we prepared exactly the movements for them. Every kill, and every move they made, was prepared over weeks and weeks, and hours and hours. “We were so busy. Every move that happens doesn’t happen just because; it happens because we prepared it. Every jump — everything.” Will Furdik miss anything about playing the Night King? “I don’t know,” he added. “I don’t have an answer for this. Nothing.” Culled from CNN