By Nicholas Obisike Rangers International FC of Enugu on Wednesday defeated visiting Bendel Insurance FC of Benin 1-0 to consolidate leadership position in the group A of Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports Rangers’ victory has confirmed the team’s position as one of the top four teams with only two matches to go. Felix Ogbuke netted the only goal of the match in the 85th minute to ensure the club qualify for the Super Four competition. Speaking after the match, Rangers gaffer Olugbenga Ogunbote said that the match was difficult for them as their opponent was desperate to escape relegation. He noted that Bendel Insurance came for victory with the way it made the game tight for them. “Though, we missed lots of chances, Insurance really worked for the three points but thank God we have the day. “Ogbuke is a super star and has shown that today by bailing the club from a difficult situation,” he said. He said that with the earned three points, the club would now rest its injured players to see if they will be ready before the super six battle ahead. “Today we have couple of new injured players as Pape Ousmane and Ajani Ibrahim joined the injury table. “I was scared when the match was heading to full time without any goal to show for our efforts. “You know, when we play them in Benin we lost because we played the majority of the match with 10 players. “Here now, what do we tell our supporters as the game is open with 11 against 11, so the victory is a very big relieve for us,” Ogunbote said. The hero, Ogbuke, said he was excited scoring the only goal of the match. “Am happy that my goal come when we needed it most; and today’s victory has giving us firm balance at the top three of the group A. “Before now, I was not playing because of some family challenges and now I am back and I want to continue scoring for my club. “Am fulfilled being a Rangers player and it is my dream to win laurels for the club in the ongoing season,” he said. NAN reports that Rangers lead the group A with 37 points from 20 matches, followed by Lobi Stars FC with 30 points after 19 matches. Enyimba FC occupy the third position with 29 points after 19 matches, while MFM FC is in fourth place with 29 points from 20 matches.