The National Assembly new media forum has been inaugurated, with a charge to members to adhere to ethics and professionalism. Speaking at the inauguration of the forum and the executives on Wednesday, clerk of the National Assembly, Mohammed Omolori said the inauguration followed the consideration that the New Media will be an avenue to engage each other. He bemoaned that the social media has become avenue for scandal and therefore urged the forum to teach others professionalism. Omolori, who spoke through the Deputy Director of information, John Gyara congratulated the forum, saying “am representing the management of the National Assembly”. He said “check your sources and balance your reportage. “It is an elitist media, and is only the elites that have access to it, don’t fail your integrity, don’t destroy your profession”. Omolori however urged the forum to maintain discipline and ensure that only credible medium, accredited by the Nigeria Union of Journalists are brought into the fold. Earlier chairman of the forum, Yemi Itodo in a welcome address recalled that at its inception, the leadership of the 8th Assembly in its wisdom, created an office for, and appointed Special Assistants on New Media to the Senate President and Honourable Speaker. “This was in addition to existing offices such as Special Adviser on Media and Chief Press Secretary; for effective dissemination of information to the global world through the internet as well as liaising between the online media and their principals”. According to Itodo, the creation has greatly been of immense benefit to the 8th Assembly and was a great contributor to the success of this Parliament. “In the face of increasingly digital and new media advancement, this trailblazing precedence, will also inform the leadership of the 9th Assembly on constitution of digital media handlers that would help set narratives for the Parliament in the next four years”. He maintained that the essence of having a forum such as this, is for easy coordination of Online Journalists within the National Assembly; assuring that it will assist the management in regulating the influx and activities of Online Journalists around the complex, with the view to check quackery and fake Journalists. Highlight of the occasion was the oath of office administered by the representative of the National Assembly management and supervised by National Assembly Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ).