…. Says Court cant stop the legislature from doing its work Senator Isah Hamma Misau, has berated his colleague, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege for what he termed abuse of ‘judicial and legislative processes’, following the latest injunction obtained by the lawmaker. Sen. Omo-Agege had obtained an injunction from a Federal High Court in Bwari, stopping the National Assembly from considering the report of the joint adhoc committee investigation the ‘mace theft’. Recall that in 2018, hoodlums stormed into the Senate Chamber and made away with the symbol of authority, the mace, an action which the leadership of the upper legislative chamber alleged was orchestrated by the then embattled Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. Following the mace theft and other allegations, the Senate on April 12 2018, suspended Sen. Omo-Agege for 90 legislative days, a suspension which didn’t amount to much as the senator got an injunction, dared the Assembly and resumed plenary after a few days of absence. Reacting to the most recent injunction obtained by the lawmaker, Sen. Misau said that Omo=Agege was abusing the generosity of the leadership of the Senate with some of his actions which seek to bring down the institution to which he belongs. Misau, in a statement released in Abuja, noted that Omo-Agege’s suit is frivolous. “The court cannot stop the legislature from the performance of its constitutional duties. ”Some hoodlums attacked the Senate chamber on live television during plenary and inflicted injury on workers on April 18, 2018. The leadership set up an adhoc committee to investigate what happened and recommend measures to prevent a recurrence. “Months after the committte had submitted its report, a Senator rushed to court when he heard that there was a push for the report to be considered before the life of the present Senate expires. “He wants to prevent the report of the committee from being considered. In fact, his action has shown the reason why the Senate should actually go ahead and consider the report and act on it, no matter the odds. “Omo-Agege has dared the Senate. Now, he should face the music. “I blame the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki for delaying on the consideration of the report,” he said. Sen. Misau added that the 8th Senate was winding down and members have asked that all outstanding reports be considered and acted upon. The senator wondered why his colleague Sen. Omo-Agege was interested in stopping the report from being considered. “If Omo-Agege does not have any hidden agenda, why is he seeking to stop the consideration of the report, afterall, he was given fair hearing to state his own case before the panel? “He is probably running helter-skelter now because he wants to become Deputy Senate President and he knows that if we adopt the recommendation of the committee, the outcome will affect his ambition. “This is the reason why people should always consider the future implications of their actions”, he stated. He however implored the Senate leadership to move swiftly to vacate the injunction granted to Omo-Agege by the Bwari court and ensure nothing stops the Senate from getting to the roots of that invasion by hoodlums.